
Design Document
UM Emulator
Date: 11/14/16
Jordan Stone & Hazen Breen 

UM Design:

Major Components of Program:
----------------------------

There will be three major components of our program.  They are the 
input/output device, the simulated main memory, and the 14 instructions for 
the Universal Machine.  The first component is a source file, um.c, that will 
contain the implementation of the fourteen instructions of the Universal 
Machine. The second major component is the simulated memory source file, 
sim_mem.c. This file will contain the dynamic array which will represent 
the main memory of the UM, this array will hold segments which will be 
represented as Hanson Sequences.  The third component is the I/O device, 
io_device.c, which will contain the abstraction for displaying 255 ASCII 
characters and performing input and output of those characters.  The 
implementation of the Universal Machine will be decoupled from the 
program loader and the main() function by having the a source file 
call the necessary modules to run the UM.

To compile, run:
make interfaces

Component Interaction & Architecture:
-------------------------------------

The components in the program will interact in the following ways. The UM 
will need to store data from its eight registers inside the simulated main 
memory; thus, the um.c source file will have access to the interface of 
sim_mem.c to store and extract data. Note, there will be a 32-bit identifier 
to serve as the program counter which will be used in keeping track of the 
words in the 0 segment.  However it is important to note that sim_mem.c will 
not have access to um.c or iodevice.c . A memory segment will need to be 
generated from within the sim_mem.c file in order for the memory to store 
segments. Additionally, the instructions of the UM will need to have access 
to the segment ADT.                                                        

The program will contain three main data structures. The first data 
structure will be an eight element array which will represented the eight 
registers of the UM. This array will be stored inside um.c. Each element 
contains space for a 32-bit word. The implementation of the UM’s 14 
instructions will manipulate the registers, communicate with the simulated 
memory, and call the input/output device. 

The second data structure in this program will simulate main memory. It will 
be simulated with a dynamic array, each element shall contain a segment. 
The 32-bit identifier of each segment of memory will be the 4-byte integer 
index of the dynamic array.  

The third data structure will be a Hanson Sequence in order to optimize main 
memory mapping. This sequence will act as a queue. This queue will hold any 
Segment ID for a location in main memory that has been freed. When mapping 
for a new segment of simulated memory, we will first check if there is any 
Segment ID on the queue, if there is, that shall be what is returned by the 
map function. This will allow us to use 32-bit segment identifiers that have 
been unmapped. If the queue is empty, we shall iterate to the next space in 
the simulated main memory dynamic array. We will store the next available 
location of main memory, ignoring freed locations, with a global iterator. 



Testing:
--------

To compile, run
make tests

To see our test cases to test the segment representation and 
accessing/manipulation, see test_segment.c. We have devised robust tests 
for our simulated main memory.  To be sure our main memory is working, we test 
whether segments can be created and stored correctly.  We will also test our 
ability to unmap segments, and then reuse the unmapped segment ID. 

For the other parts of the UM, we will have test cases for each of the 
fourteen individual UM operations.  The tests that will test instruction 
10 (output) and 11 (input) directly interact with the input/output device.  
We will have robust test to ensure the functionality of the I/O device and 
the I/O UM operations, such as empty files, unexpected characters, and very 
large files.   



UM Segment Abstract Data Type Design:
-------------------------------------
                                                        
We are trying to represent a piece of memory, which will hold 32-bit words. 

We will represent a segment of memory as a Hanson Sequence. As with most 
Hanson data types, an instance of a Hanson Sequence is actually a pointer 
to a Sequence. Each element of the sequence will be a 32-bit word.  

For the 0 segment, the only thing that will be stored will be a sequence 
of instructions.  For every other segment it shall be used as the program 
requires.   Every segment will have unique 32 bit segment ID. Segments can 
be created with different sizes, but are not dynamic once created.

A segment represents a list of words, each of which represent some piece 
of data whether it be an instruction or a value which need to be stored or 
used to run the program.



